Let's go back to our slide from before, about how push notifications work. We know how that display notification
part works but the majority of the slide actually is about the push part,
so let's dive into that
now and as you can see, it's a multi-step process.
First of all, we need to get a subscription, either an existing one or create a new one and store that on
a server because it's on our own back-end server
where we want to basically send new push notifications and we can only send them to subscribers and we don't
send them to e-mails or something like that
but to registered devices, to be precise, to registered browsers on devices and we use that browser vendor
push service to really make it to our front-end web app to inform our browser that it should issue
a system notification or that it should inform our service worker basically.
So this is what we want to do
and therefore the thing I want to start with is this create a new subscription part here,
so the front-end part where we use the service worker to create a subscription, then we'll send it to
our server of course and then we'll learn how we can issue a new push request, push notification on our
own back-end server.
So let's start with subscriptions first in our application.
I'll do this in the app.js file because I'll of course do this as a reaction to some user event,
in this case that the user clicked the enable notifications button,
I'll take this as a request to also subscribe the user.
So therefore I'll add a new function, maybe below the display confirm notification function here which
I will name configure push sub for push subscription, of course you can pick any function name
you want.
Now this function here should actually get triggered here instead of display confirm notification,
so I'll comment this out and trigger confirm push sub instead after we ask for permission because this
is what I want to do as a next step.
I know that we can send notifications,
so I now want to set up the subscription. So in push sub here, I first of all will check if we have
access to service workers.
I maybe should have checked that before because here we use that too
though here we check it already
but for push sub, I also need to check it separately
and of course we could add the check here in the else statement and do nothing if we don't have service
worker support, I'll add it here though.
I'll first check if we don't have access to service workers,
so if the service worker object doesn't exist in the navigator, I check for the opposite by adding an
exclamation mark at the beginning.
If service worker doesn't exist here, I just return because there's nothing else left for me to do.
It doesn't support this,
I can't listen to push messages without a service worker,
we can't offer that feature,
that's how it is.
That's by the way also the reason why I by default disable this button here and therefore we can also
improve this check to disable our enable notifications button,
not only if notifications is not supported,
so basically we do the opposite,
we enable it
if notifications are supported but we also require service workers to be supported in navigator. That
of course means we could get rid of that check because we can never get there since our buttons
won't be displayed if we don't have service worker access
but for completeness sake, I'll leave it here to also remind you that you should always check for a feature
availability before using it,
even though technically you can't reach that code if it's not supported.
As a next step,
I now need to get access to my service worker again because even the way I execute it here in my front-end,
in my main Javascript code because we do it as a reaction to a DOM event, a click, even though I execute it
here,
subscriptions are managed by the service worker which makes sense because it's the service worker which
is also responsible for reacting to push messages later on.
So here, I will reach out to my navigator service worker
and then again I will check if the service worker is ready, which gives me a promise and there in the
function which gets executed upon the resolving of that promise, I get access to the service worker registration
here. Now in there,
I now want to access the
push manager and check for existing subscriptions.
So I will simply check swreg and there we have a push manager object where I can call get subscription.
Get subscription is a method which will return any existing subscriptions, though first of all it returns
a promise.
So what I'll do is I will return this whole call and can then conveniently chain another then call
to this promise chain.
Now this here will resolve with any subscriptions we fetched and sub will be null if we don't have
any existing subscriptions.
Now
for what does the push manager check subscriptions?
As mentioned earlier, for this browser on this device
because that's also for what this service worker is registered.
If we open a wrap in a second browser on the same device, we will also get a new service worker, a whole
new scope, a whole new app in the end
and therefore each browser device combination yields one subscription and this is exactly what we check
here.
Does this service worker handled through this browser have an existing subscription for this device?
Here I'll then first of all check if sub is equal to null
because in this case I want to create a new subscription, in the other case here I'll use my existing,
so we have a subscription and this might be where you maybe want to send it to your back-end server again
to update it there
or just ignore it because you rely on already having it stored on your back-end server, whatever you
want.
So this is my subscription management. Now in the first case as I just said, we won't have a subscription,
so now the goal is to create a new one.
We'll do this in the next lecture.